Feedback Linearization is a non-linear control technique used for non-linear systems. The rotational physics of a quadcopter are described by Euler's Equation of Motion for a Rigid Body. As can be shown from the equation, rotation about two axis of quadcopter creates a torque on the third axis. The PID controller is a linear controller and is not designed to handle this kind of system. However, it is seen that in many practical applications a PID controller is sufficient with gain scheduling (TPA, Antigravity, EMUBoost etc). However, feedback linearization makes a non-linear system look linear from the perspective of the linear controller allowing it to perform the job it is designed for. The hypothesis is that feedback linearization will improve performance of the quadcopter in situations with rotational velocties on multiple axis such as coordinated turns, split-s turns, cross compensating rolls, hard 180 turns etc. Furthermore, it should help with propwash since propwash typically shows up on multiple axis  at the same time.
The code is designed so that physical parameters of the quadcopter don't need to be directly known and non-dimensional constants which may be intuitively tuned by someone who isn't academically trained in the dynamics of a quadcopter. The first two constants are the pitchInertia and yawInertia ratios. They describe the relative size of the pitch and yaw moments of inertia with respect to the roll moment of inertia. Due to the elongated body and typical distribution of mass along the pitch axis, The pitch inertia and yawInertia ratios are almost always greater than one with the yaw ratio being larger than the pitch ratio (1<kp<ky). The pitchTorque and yawTorque ratios describe the relative abilities of the motors to produce torque along a given axis. This depends on the motor geometry. A stretch-X frame will have a pitchTorque ratio greater than one but a wide-x frame will have lower ratio. The yawTorque ratio is often less than one since the propeller drag constant is less than the propeller thrust constant but the value for it may be determined from a simple hover test as long as the the flight controller has a current meter. The final ratio is the Torque to Inertia ratio and it describes the ratio of the maximum torque on the roll axis to the roll axis moment of inertia. This is similar to the concept of thrust to weight ratio.